# Python Map Reduce

Basic Python introduction and concepts needed in preparation for working with map-reduce solutions.

## Requirements

- Install Chocolatey, the Windows package manager
- Install the Anaconda 3 version for Python + common packages
- Install Visual Studio Code for text editing
- Add Open Command Window Here as Administrator to your File Explorer context menu.

```PowerShell
- choco install anaconda3 -y
- choco install vscode -y
```

## Case 1:  Local file-based

- The commands which are stated below are the commands which execute the thee python programs namely 11mapper.py,12sorter.py and 13reducer.py respectively.
- These commands are to be executed so as to obtain the end-result which are present within ''mapped-list.txt'' , ''sorted-list.txt'' and ''reduce-list.txt'' respectively.
- We need to ensure that the execution of the python programs occurs in the below stated sequence otherwise it might lead to errors as the output file thus generated by execution of previous python program becomes the input file of the next.

```PowerShell
py 11mapper.py
py 12sorter.py
py 13reducer.py
```

## Case 2:  Use standard input and output

- Use the console (standard input and output) and shell commands to pipe information.  We'll use the built-in shell sort command, so we don't need that anymore. 

- The basic syntax of the final outcome command is as described below:
   ```
   cat data | map | sort | reduce
   ```

- PowerShell and Bash use the same commands:

  ```Bash
  cat purchases.txt
  cat purchases.txt | python 21mapper.py
  cat purchases.txt | python 21mapper.py | sort
  cat purchases.txt | python 21mapper.py | sort  | python 22reducer.py
   ```
- The commands shown above are the incremental commands which are used so as to understand the procedure as to how they actually work.

- The command which is to be used so as to process larger dataset (purchases.txt) is as stated below:
  ```
  cat purchases.txt | python 21mapper.py | sort  | python 22reducer.py 
  ```

## References

- [Udacity "Introduction to Hadoop and MapReduce"](https://classroom.udacity.com/courses/ud617/)
- [IBM Python for Data Science](https://cognitiveclass.ai/courses/python-for-data-science)
- [Basic Setup for Big Data](https://github.com/denisecase/basic-setup-for-bigdata)

## Forked Repository
- [https://github.com/denisecase/python-map-reduce](https://github.com/denisecase/python-map-reduce)

## Link to My Repository
- [GitHub Repository of Deepthi](https://github.com/Deepthi1003/python-map-reduce)

